- Let's learn about the options on how we can get started
with Kubernetes by creating our first Kubernetes cluster.
There are multiple ways to get started with Kubernetes.
You can run it easily on your desktop,
on-premises data center, or in the cloud.
There's a wide variety of choices
for running in each of the environments as well.
This course will cover running Kubernetes on desktop
and in the cloud.
Minikube runs on a single-node Kubernetes cluster
using the type 2 hypervisor, such as VirtualBox.
It is a single-node Kubernetes cluster
running inside a virtual machine.
If you're building Docker Images, you are likely
to have Docker for Desktop installed on your local machine.
It provides a seamless way to start a Kubernetes cluster.
In this case, a single-node Kubernetes server runs locally
within your Docker instance,
and the version is not configurable.
I conducted a Twitter survey
to check which tool is popular for desktop development,
virtually using Kubernetes, on desktop.
Docker for Desktop and Minikube
are certainly the most common ones.
This course will explain both getting started
with Minikube and Docker for Desktop.
And, we will use Docker for Desktop for all development,
in this course, because of simplicity,
and seamless integration with Kubernetes.
Let's start with Docker for Desktop first.
In order to get started with Docker for Desktop,
you go to www.docker.com, look at products,
pick a Docker desktop.
Depending upon your operating system,
we are on a Mac machine here,
click on download for Dock for Mac, scroll down.
You can pick a Stable, or an Edge release.
In our case we'll take the Edge release
so that we get the latest version of Docker.
Once the download is complete, click on it, now we go ahead,
and move the Docker install to our Applications directory.
And, we can go to our Applications folder, and start Docker.
Applications, click on the icon here to start Docker.
Click on next here.
You need Admin access.
And now, you can see Docker desktop is starting for you.
And on the top here, what you're seeing is,
in the whale icon that is going up and down,
indicating that Docker is getting started.
And you will see something very similar on your
Docker for Windows as well.
Now that your Docker daemon is up and running,
now you can enter your Docker ID, and password, and log in.
In order to enable Kubernetes, using Docker Desktop,
click here, go to preferences, go to Kubernetes,
click on enable Kubernetes, and apply.
This will download all the images required to run your
Kubernetes, and install it in the Docker instance itself.
So it's really that simple.
It will take a while for it to download the images,
and start it, so we'll speed up the process.
Alright, after waiting for a few minutes, you can see
that Kubernetes is now successfully installed,
so let's go ahead and close it.
Now we're going to go to our terminal,
and take a look it, how we can start using it.
First thing we look at is, what is our, kubectl version.
So we say, kubectl version,
and this shows the Client Version, and the Server Version.
Client Version of course is the version
of the kubectl CLI, or kubectl CLI.
And Server version is the Kubernetes server version for us.
The second thing that we try is,
kubectl config get-contexts.
This shows the Kubernetes server configurations
that exist on our local machine.
And of course, Kubernetes cluster installed in
Docker for Desktop is the only cluster
that we have available, and so
that's the config that is shown over here.
The star over here indicates that
that is our current context, so any command
that we guide, from now onwards using kubectl,
will be guided towards this particular cluster.
Now let's look at how many nodes this cluster has.
Of course, as we said, Docker for Desktop is a single-node
Kubernetes cluster, so it shows a single-node.
So it's very straightforward, to get started with
Docker for Desktop, and enable a Kubernetes cluster.
And this is going to be the mechanism
that we will use in this course.